I spoke to James Elder he's unicef's
Global spokesperson he joined us from
Gaza as the air strikes took
place I've been coming here every day
for a week and there are now children I
know I know by name teaching a few kids
to juggle something to break the moment
to break the spell of of what they're
under um and you can see gently gently
they you can hear explosions again again
now you can see the gentle change as
they loosen as they the bit of childhood
seeps back into them that was gone again
today the fear the trauma the look in
little boys and girls eyes as they see
and they notice that that look of their
parents that their parents are losing
control their parents may not have the
ability to protect them that's
terrifying I sat again with a little boy
I've been seeing Rob um ahed he's three
he's lost his leg he's not speaking
again he's absolutely mute he can hear
the sounds here but yes of course the
the
medical staff here what to say they're
phenomenal they they they never stop I'm
sure they never will stop but the health
system as who says time and again
despite who's incredible
efforts it's exhausted you know you
cannot you cannot possibly in all good
conscience start attacking the people of
Gaza again and think that you will not
have a massacre on your hands so the
health staff will keep going my United
Nations colleagues they they they don't
stop go to the front lines because in
their heart they believe they can make a
difference and the in the worst times
the most difficult times is when they
come to the four but they too have
families they too have children and
loved ones who will be terrified right
now as they as they too are near the
front lines everyone does what they can
yet it seems the only people who can
make a decision um are not doing what
they
should James if you and the team there
need to get to safety and of course
anybody around you as well as those
those attacks continue please do so
please just stop and get to safety as
fast as you can in the meantime just
very quickly can you talk to us about
what you're hearing the explosions that
you were describing to us just a moment
ago can you just talk to us about um the
sounds that you're hearing and how close
they might be to where you
are yes I can I have no military
expertise Rob just seen too much of this
um so the first thing you notice is is
the sound but simultaneously rob you
just see in my peripheral vision or
early when there attacks you just see
people shutter particularly children you
just see that reflex action that is
becoming learn behavior of of fear
seeping in so you know it's a sound
first and there's drones and I'm still
unable to differentiate between what
flies over and what strikes and then
it's plumes of smoke if it's close then
you hear very quickly within a couple of
minutes screams I guess of family
members of loved ones as they see the
reality of of another another person
killed um and look it's kind of you of
course of course we would move but as
we've heard time and again there nowhere
is safe in Gaza the the people in shifa
saw this I cannot
imagine I cannot imagine if you if you
need and the team need to get brought to
this Hospital
uh of course we don't know what safety
looks like there hundreds of children
Robb in this Hospital who don't know
what safety looks like the medical staff
there there is no bunker here it's not
the Ukraine no one knows what safety
looks like they they they know what fear
looks like they know what death looks
like um and and we we pray that that
that those who have the influence to to
stop this to end the trauma and end the
killing also understand what Their Fear
um and what death for the children of
Gaza looks like